>>What unifies everything
and everyone everywhere?
This question has baffled
physicists and scholars
for centuries.
Nobel Prize winner
Albert Einstein
came up with the most
respected physics equations.
But his dream of finding
the unified solution
eluded even him.
Where should one
look for the answer
to this universal puzzle?
To the past?
The future?
The ends of the
cosmos or beyond?
Or inward?
Is the answer inside
a particle, a proton?
Does our consciousness
affect the nature of reality?
Maybe clues have
been left for us
throughout the
centuries, encrypted
in sacred icons and symbols.
Who among us can
unravel the mysteries?
Einstein was a technical
assistant at the patent office
when, in his spare
time, he cranked out
some of the most remarkable
theories, theories that
remain the crux of
classical physics today.
Einstein once said,
"any intelligent fool
could make things
bigger and more complex.
It takes a touch of genius
and a lot of courage
to move in the
opposite direction."
You expect a physics
mastermind to be holed up
in a big stone building with
ivy crawling up the walls, not
on the ski slopes
of British Columbia
or swimming with the dolphins
off the big island of Hawaii,
scuba diving and exploring the
Bimini wall near the Bahamas,
or scaling the rest
of the physical world
literally and mathematically.
Nassim Haramein was born in
Geneva, Switzerland in 1962.
Like many other savants,
this imaginative child
frustrated teachers to the
point he was ostracized.
Few around him knew
of the equations,
mathematical quandaries
and probabilities
that consumed his mind.
As a young adult, Haramein
spent months living alone
in a van in California
tackling these nagging concepts
until he met believers
who supported his efforts.
>>This is our entrance
to the laboratory.
>>Haramein struggled
for the next 25 years,
working alone and with
world-renowned physicist
Elizabeth Rauscher,
testing and finally
potentially solving
Einstein's dream.
This lifetime of
decoding started in 1972,
when a teacher
sparked Haramein's
faithful inner journey.
>>This all kind of started
when I was about 10 years old
and I got in my
first geometry class.
It was an exciting time,
because the teacher
went to the blackboard and
made a little dot and said,
today we're going to
learn about dimensions.
And when he said dimensions,
I got all excited.
Because I thought,
oh, he's going
to talk about all these
world I live in my mind
and all these other
things I'm experiencing.
And I thought, wow, that's
the first adult that's
going to talk about that.
And so I got really excited.
And then I got really,
really, really disappointed.
Because after he put the little
dot on the blackboard he said,
the dot is dimension zero.
And it doesn't exist.
And I thought, oh, I think
I'm going to fail this class.
Because I could see
the dot from all way
in the back of the class.
So if I could see it, how
is it that it didn't exist?
Then he did something
even more miraculous.
He put a bunch of dots
together to make a line,
called it dimension 1, and
said that didn't exist, either,
because it still
didn't have volume.
Then he put four lines
together, made a plane,
called it dimension 2,
said that's a dimension
that our comic
strip books live in.
And he said that
doesn't exist, either,
because it still
doesn't enclose volume.
It's flat.
The teacher then did
something remarkable.
He took six of these
non-existing planes,
put them together into a cube,
and said now the planes enclose
volume.
This is the dimension 3.
And that's the one you exist in.
And I thought, wait.
How's that possible?
I don't care if you have a
million non-existing planes.
If you put them together, you
still don't have existence.
This didn't work for me.
I thought if the dot doesn't
exist, the line doesn't exist,
the plane doesn't exist,
you don't have existence.
Eventually, I found
out many other people
found the same problem
when they were young
and were taught these axioms.
One of them was a famous
geometrist, Buckminster Fuller.
Well, it turns out that
these fundamental axioms
about geometry is some of what
most of our math and physics
is based on.
Our physics and advanced
physics, Einstein field
equations, quantum theory, all
this is based on flat space.
And if these axioms, if this
fundamental concept is not
correct, then most
likely what we're
going to end up with when we
run all these physics and all
these mathematics to
understand our world
is going to be a little tweak.
It's not going to
be quite correct.
So I didn't know all this at
the time, at the age of 10.
But certainly, I wanted
to understand it.
I wanted to find a new solution.
I had a long bus ride
going home, and I thought,
I've got to figure this out.
I was in the bus,
and I was thinking
I'm not going to get out of the
bus until I got this figured.
I didn't know that many
philosophers and scientists
had raveled with this problem.
I closed my eyes in the bus.
And in mind's eye,
I visualized myself
seeing the bus from above.
And I rose further and further.
And as I did, the bus
started to look like a dot.
And then eventually,
I rose further.
And the country I was in
started to look like a dot.
And I rose further,
and I saw the Earth
starting to look like a dot.
And I rose further, and
I saw the solar system
looking like a dot.
And I rose further, and I saw
the galaxy looking like a dot.
And I thought, oh my god.
It's dots all the way up.
And then I flew back
into the galaxy,
flew back into the Earth,
and found the bus I was in,
and opened my eyes,
and looked at my hand.
And I thought, wow.
I wonder what's in my hand.
And I closed my eyes again
and I flew into my hand.
And I thought, wow, it's made
out of millions of dots, cells.
And then I flew onto the
surface of one of those cells.
And I looked around.
It was made out of millions
of smaller dots that
looked like stars in the sky.
And I thought, oh.
And I flew into one of those
dots and looked in the middle.
And sure enough, there was
another teeny, weeny dot
in the middle of those atoms.
And I thought, wow.
It's dots all way down.
And I-- a light went on.
And I thought, oh.
The way to solve the
dimensional problem is
to reverse the axiom completely
and say the only thing that
exists is the dot.
Within the dot is infinite
amount of division,
infinite amount of information.
And I thought, wow, everything
is made out of dots.
And the dots are
arranged differently.
And that makes up
our whole world.
I opened my eyes, and I looked
at all the people in the bus.
And I thought, wow, they're
all made out of dots.
And I could kind of
see the infinite dots
of their existence.
I got really excited.
But then I started to
realize through a few other
experiences that, wait a minute.
If it's infinite--
divisions-- if infinite,
how is it that we
get finite structure?
How is it that we get
a finite boundary?
How is it that we have finite
systems with, like, infinities?
>>Haramein didn't
know it at the time,
but he was grappling
with one of the biggest
chasms in current physics.
Einstein's theory of
general relativity
covers the cosmic scales
and the relationship
between gravity,
time, and space.
It predicts continuum to an
infinite point of singularity,
or a black hole.
Quantum theory covers the
smallest units in the universe
and predicts finite
and linear boundaries.
The two theories are at odds.
But Haramein believes both
viewpoints are interconnected,
because everything big is
made up of something small.
>>In general, we could define
our society in two ways.
We've got people that have a
tendency to be very spiritual,
and these people tend to
think in terms of infinities,
that infinite potential,
and all this stuff.
And on the other hand,
we have scientific people
that tend to think in finite
systems, closed systems that
have very defined boundaries.
And the two don't
necessarily agree.
And I think that, at this point,
this has to come together.
And in a very simple way, I'm
going to show you geometrically
that infinities
and finite system
are actually complimentary.
If we take the
boundary of a circle,
and we define that as
our finite space-- now
that circle could be a sphere.
And we divide that
circle so that a triangle
is formed in it, an equilateral
triangle in this case.
Now, the universe is polarized.
Everything in the
universe seems to spin.
So spin produce polarity.
So we would have a reverse
triangle at the same time.
As soon as we do this, now
we've created a new boundary
condition at the next fractal
level down, the next iteration
down.
Now, notice that these
new boundaries all
are centered around a
very specific center.
That is, each of the
boundaries defines
a very specific
structure in spacetime,
coordinate in spacetime.
And so each of the
boundaries could
be defined as a very
specific set of information.
Now, I can continue
to divide this space
to produce new
boundary conditions.
Now, I've got another
iteration down
and another set of information.
Now, I can continue to do
this and create new boundaries
again.
And at this point,
you can imagine
that if I gave this
to my computer,
it could zoom in,
bring it back up,
continue to divide the space.
Zoom in, bring it back up,
And it could do
this to infinity.
However, I would
never ever, ever, ever
exceed that first boundary
I've produced for myself.
So here, I have
embedded infinite amount
of divisions, infinite
amount of information,
within the confine
of a finite space.
So in very simple
terms here, I've
shown to you that infinities
and finite structures
are complimentary.
That within the confines of what
appears to be a finite space
can be embedded infinite
amount of information.
And if this is true,
this simple concept
could change all of our
concepts of physics,
including our concepts of our
relationship to the universe.
So why is that true?
Think of yourself
as made of cells
that are made out of atoms.
Now, there's about
100 trillion cells
in your body and billions
of atoms per cells.
And imagine that all these
cells and all these atoms
can be further divided into
subatomic particles that
can be divided into
sub-subatomic particles
and so on towards infinity.
That would mean that
you actually, even
in your physical body, have
a function of infinity.
That is, you have
an infinite nature
within the confine of what
you call the physical world.
So you don't need to even
have a spiritual concept
of your infinite nature.
It's actually the way
you're made if this is true.
>>This complimentary
fractal condition
could change the
fundamentals of physics.
Quantum theorists
adhere to a concept
called the God Particle.
If we look hard
enough, they believe,
we'll discover the
smallest division
that the universe creates.
Here's another way
to approach it.
>>At first, when we had
our first microscopes,
when we saw cells, we
thought, oh my god.
Those are so small,
they got to be
the smallest thing
the universe does.
And then we found that those
cells were made out of atoms.
And the atoms are so
small, we thought, oh.
Those are got to be
the God Particle.
Those are the smallest
thing the universe does.
And then we found
that those atoms
have nuclei in the
middle, protons, neutrons.
And those are teeny,
weeny, weeny particles
compared to the
size of the atom.
The universe goes all the
way down to that size,
and then stops.
And it says, OK.
That's small enough.
I'm not doing anything smaller.
However, then we found
quarks, and so on.
And at this point,
we're building
accelerators that are enormous,
an extraordinary device that
accelerates particles at
faster and faster rates
to get smaller and
smaller particles,
thinking every time
that we're going
to find this fundamental
particle that
can no longer be divided.
However, every time
some physicist somewhere
writes a new equation
saying, oh, maybe there's
another energy level, da,
da, da, da, da, and then
next thing you know, we're
building a larger accelerator
to try to find it.
And now, we're
looking for things
that are billions of times
smaller than an atom.
But based on this concept
that we've just learned about,
we would know that this
can be done to infinity,
that you can always get a
smaller and smaller particle
if you could get larger
and larger accelerator.
So what is this really
telling us about the universe?
I think that a more
worthy exploration
would be to stop looking
for a fundamental particle
and start looking for
a fundamental pattern
of division.
Because if we could find the
pattern in which the universe
divides, then we would
have the key to creation.
And that could be really useful.
My first sponsors wanted me to
spend a lot of time interacting
with other physicists to try
to get some support from them,
and as well discuss ideas, and
see where my theory related
to the mainstream, and so on.
And so eventually, he dragged me
to a bunch of different physics
conference.
And I wasn't so excited.
Because I already had
a bunch of run-ins
with the mainstream
scientific community.
And I was a little worried.
But eventually, you know, I got
into this private conference
at Georgia Tech.
And we were discussing
very advanced physics,
string theory.
There was equations
everywhere and so on.
And I was kind of irritating
people a little bit,
because I kept on asking
fundamental questions.
The only book I had brought
was this book, "Gravitation."
"Gravitation" is the Bible
of relativistic equations.
And it's written by giants
of physics, Wheeler, Thorne,
and Misner.
And it has all
the equations that
describes relativistic
equations and curvature of space
and gravitation.
And it's called "Gravitation"
because it's pretty thick.
So when you pick it
up, you know everything
you need to know about gravity.
You know, at one point,
I stopped the conference,
and I asked-- I
said, wait a minute.
I got to understand something.
I opened "Gravitation"
to page 719,
and I said, if I
understand well,
this is our current
model of the universe.
It looks like a balloon
that's being inflated
that has pennies glued to it.
And the pennies are
representative of galaxies.
And as the balloon
inflates, the pennies
move away from each
other, representing
the expansion of our universe.
And they're all looking
at me, going yes.
This is the current model.
These are fundamental
principles.
What I want to know--
and I've looked
in many, many different
physics books.
I read all these equations,
worked out all this stuff.
What I'm not understanding,
and you gentlemens
might be able to point
this equation to me,
I haven't found anywhere where
it explains who's this guy.
And the whole room
became really quiet.
I will always remember
one of the students
was drinking coffee, and he
kind of coughed a little bit
when I said that.
He thought maybe I'd say
the word God in the physics
department.
Look at it this way.
When the balloon expands,
the lungs contract.
So for every action, there's an
equal and opposite reaction--
some of the first
laws of physics.
In our current model, the
universe is expanding,
but nothing is contracting
to make it expand.
So how is it that
the balloon can
expand if you're not
compressing air into it.
For me, it was a crucial moment.
It had come from earlier
experiences when I was young,
where I realized that
there's an external world
to my experience.
But as well, is an internal
world to my experience.
And I thought maybe
the boundary conditions
of the division of
the universe are
the result of the relationship
between the outside world
and the inside world.
And that the two are
like colliding wave,
like standing wave that
produce boundaries.
I was thinking, if I was
to point at something that
connected all things,
what would that be?
If I could choose just one
thing that connects everything,
what would that be?
Eventually, I came to
conclude the only thing that's
everywhere, that connects
all things, is space.
Space is everywhere: between
galaxies, between stars,
between planets, between
cells, between atoms.
And even the atomic structure
is made out of 99.99999% space.
So the reality we live
in is mostly space.
Everything you see,
all the material world
that you think is so solid,
is actually mostly space.
What you're experiencing
as your reality,
what you call the
material world,
is actually 0.0000001 of
a percent of what's there.
Yet, we spend most of our time
paying attention to that part
and forget to look at the space.
For me, earlier
on, it was crucial
that maybe it's the space
we should be looking at.
Maybe we should pay
attention to the 99.9999999%.
Maybe objects don't
define the space,
but space defines the objects.
Well, if that was true,
and if the vacuum,
if the space was
connecting all things,
since all things
radiate in the space,
and if the space is the
source of all things,
then that space
could not be empty.
What we call the vacuum, what
we call so-called empty space,
could not be empty.
It had to be full.
And it had to be infinitely
full-- very, very dense
in any case.
>>Does current quantum
field theory account
for this density?
Haramein turned again to
the book of "Gravitation,"
where he was surprised to
find supporting evidence.
Quote, "present-day quantum
field theory gets rid
by a renormalization process of
an energy density in the vacuum
that would formally be
infinite if not removed by this
renormalization."
>>So in current
quantum field theory,
it is necessary for
the vacuum to have
a very, very high
density level in order
for us to be able to run
our equation and account
for everything that's going
on at the atomic level.
That was a confirmation
point for what I was already
thinking about, that
the vacuum is not empty,
that space is actually
a fluctuation that
may be actually the
source of our reality.
But what is renormalization?
Well, there's two kinds
of infinities in physics.
There's an infinitely
small number.
In general, a
theory that comes up
with an infinitely small number,
the number can be discarded.
It's not very important, because
it's a very, very small number.
However, there's another thing
that creeps up in physics.
And when it does, it's
called nasty infinities.
And that is an
infinitely large number.
When an equation gives you
an infinitely large number,
you can't just say I'm
going to ignore that.
So what is done usually,
either than being
said that the theory may be
breaking down at that level,
is that that number
is renormalized.
So usually what's used
is a fundamental constant
to cut the number.
In this case, what was used
was the Planck's distance.
The Planck's distance
is supposedly
the smallest thing
the universe does.
You could think of it
in a really simple term
as the time or the
distance it takes a photon
to go across itself.
It's the smallest
wavelength the universe
is supposed to be able to do.
Do I think that the
Planck's distance
is the smallest thing
the universe does?
No.
I think that the
Planck's distance
is a boundary condition that
is a fundamental boundary
in relationship
to our experience.
But I think that there's
further definition,
there's further structure
below the Planck's distance.
In any case, using the
Planck's distance, which
is 1.616 multiplied
by 10 to minus 33--
extremely small, billions of
times smaller than an atom--
they renormalized the vacuum.
What they did is they took
a centimeter cube of space.
And they said how many of
these Planck's distances
can we fit in,
can we squeeze in,
into a centimeter cube of space?
And if we do that, we'll
have a finite number
for the density of the vacuum.
Basically, how much fluctuation
of Planck's distances
is there in a centimeter
cube of space?
So they stacked little
Planck's distances
full into a centimeter
cube of space.
Each one have a very specific
mass, 10 to the minus 5 grams.
And they added it all up to
get a fundamental density.
The result was still
extremely large.
The result is 10 to the 93
grams per centimeter cubed.
That is an enormous number.
You might have noticed in your
bank account, every time you
add a zero, it
makes a big change.
Imagine that you have 50 some
zeroes, and you keep adding.
At 93 zeroes, you've got
the density of the vacuum.
Well, to give you an idea
of how dense is that,
imagine that you took all of the
stars we see in the universe.
There's billions of galaxies.
They have billions
of stars in them.
Some of the stars are even
much larger than our sun.
And we took them all,
and we squished them
all into a centimeter
cube of space
with this huge trash
compactor or something.
You still wouldn't have the
energy density of the vacuum.
Because the universe
is approximately 10
to the 55th gram.
So 10 to the 55th gram squeezed
into a centimeter cube of space
is still some 39
orders of magnitude
smaller than the
structure of the vacuum,
the density of the vacuum.
So to think of empty space
as empty is incorrect.
Space is full.
It's full of these fluctuations.
It's full of this energy
density that is actually,
according to what I found,
the source of all of reality.
The negative space is what
produces our material world.
Based on this, I started
to think about it
in terms of division
of this vacuum density.
I started to think
of our reality
not as object in the space,
but as division of the space.
I started to think maybe we
could start to find patterns
in the division of the space.
Elizabeth Rauscher and
I published a paper.
And this paper
described a scaling law.
The scaling law is simple.
On one side, we
have energy density.
And on the other,
we have a radius.
So the graph represents
energy in terms
of Hertz in one direction
and the radius in the other.
And we started to plot
all of the objects we
see in the universe.
We started with the
universe itself.
We ran the equations.
And we took the data
that's available
to approximate the
radius of our universe.
And then we approximated
its energy levels,
and we plotted the
first data point.
When you look at our universe,
its size, and the amount
of material in it, you find
that actually our universe
obeys the condition
of a black hole.
Our universe is too dense for
light to actually escape it.
If we were to shine a laser
in our universe right now,
it would get bent a little bit
by our local star, our sun.
Then it would eventually
get to another star
and get bent a little bit more.
And it would get to
another star and get bent
by that gravitational
field, and get bent
by gravitational fields
of galaxy and all this.
And because there's
so much mass, there's
so much matter in our universe,
in its radius, in a closed
universe, actually light would
not be able to escape it.
It would come back onto itself.
So in fact, our universe can
be considered as a black hole.
Technically, it
obeys that condition.
Did you know you live in
a black hole universe?
>>The universe, with its
black hole condition,
was the first data
point Haramein charted.
He next added galactic
centers and stars.
They lined up in a
linear progression
with the universe,
an amazing result.
If the vacuum is the
source of the division,
then it divides in very
specific relationships.
The next step was to see
if the pattern continued
on the other end of
the physics scale.
>>Now, we went from stars all
the way down to atoms, right
across the quantum world
from relativistic equation
to the quantum world.
And we plotted the energy level
of an atom and its radius.
And sure enough, the data
point lined up again.
Now, that's a huge jump.
And then we went
all the way down
to the Planck's
distance singularity.
And that lined up as well.
All the way from universe, which
is immense, to a teeny point
billions and billions
and billions of times
smaller than an
atom, and all this,
all the data points in between
lining up so very closely
to a perfect linear progression.
Remarkable-- showing
that there is
structure, that there is order,
that the vacuum is dividing in
very specific relationships.
And when we start to
look at the relationship
between the divisions
of the data points,
we found that the relationships
were very close to phi ratios.
The phi ratio is found
everywhere in nature.
When you look at your hand,
the end of your finger
is 1.618, which is
the phi ratio, smaller
than the second
part of your finger.
And the second part is 1.618
smaller than the third part.
And your hand relative
to your forearm.
Your arms relative to
your body, and so on.
Those Fibonacci
sequence, or phi ratios,
are found everywhere in
nature, is in plants,
in flowers, the branches
of a tree, the roots
of a tree, the nervous system of
your body, all of the divisions
that produces all
of the arteries
and the veins of your
body and so on-- all phi
ratios, all Fibonacci series.
>>The phi ratio is evident even
beyond where our eyes can see.
The most recent
discovery confirmed
that the phi ratio exists
even at the atomic level.
Researchers in Germany
observe that a chain of atoms
acts like a nano scale
musical instrument,
whereby the phi
ratio seems to be
the preferred division
of the musical notes.
>>So it was remarkable to
find it on such a huge scale.
It indicated that the
scaling law was correct,
that the structure is evident
and it is present even
on enormous scale.
Where is the
structure coming from?
Most likely, from the
structure of the vacuum
itself, the division
of the vacuum.
It was clear to
me that the vacuum
must have fundamental structure.
There was another data point
that was very interesting.
When you take the biological
resolution, the microtubules,
which are small
entities that makes up
the structure of cells,
they are much, much,
much larger than that atoms.
But they oscillate at the very
high rate, 10 to the 11 to 10
to the 14 Hertz.
So we plotted the microtubules
on our scaling law.
And sure enough,
amazingly, it almost
landed on the linear
progression perfectly
and divided the scale
almost in the middle,
between the extremely large
and the extremely small.
There was this
biological entity that
makes up the
biological world, as
if biology, as if
your structure,
is the boundary condition that
divides the extremely large
to the extremely small.
You are the event horizon.
It started to make sense that
all this organization would
include the
biological structure.
Because when we see our
biological world, when
we see our environment,
when we see our biosphere,
it's highly organized.
And these phi ratios
are found everywhere.
There was another
data point that
was interesting in
the scaling law.
The atomic level is in
between the universal size
and the Planck's distance.
Now, as we saw,
the universal size
can be considered a black hole.
It obeys the
Schwarzschild condition.
And the Planck's distance obeys
the Schwarzschild condition.
So having the atom right there
on that linear progression
started to indicate that
the atom may be a black hole
itself.
As we saw earlier, the
division of the space
can be done to infinity.
If an atom has subatomic
particles that are made out
of sub-subatomic particles
that are made out
of sub-sub-subatomic
particles and so
on to infinity, and
each one has a mass,
then there's infinite mass
at the center about of atoms.
And to me, very
early, I concluded
they must be mini black holes.
From this conclusion,
I extrapolated
that there must be a black hole
at the center of all galaxies.
I said that very early,
almost 17 years ago.
However, at the time,
there was not much data
about the center of
galaxies, so many physicists
thought this was improbable.
Eventually, we got
more and more data
about the center of galaxies.
And we found that
there is a black hole
at the center of what seems
to be every galaxy we observe.
So that confirmed that I
was on the right track.
But how is the
atom a black hole?
Is it possible?
Is our current physics say that?
No, it doesn't.
So I had to start
looking at how we wrote
our physics for the
atomic level and how
they could be written
in a different way.
Could we approach the
atom as a mini black hole?
Eventually, this
is how I solved it.
And it is the crux of
the unification theory
that I'm bringing forward.
Because if we can describe
the atom as a mini black hole,
then we can describe
the atomic world
with Einstein field equations.
So I looked at the
atom in detail.
What I did is I
said, wait a minute.
We have a density
of the vacuum of 10
to the 93 grams per
centimeter cubed.
Is that considered when
we look at the atom?
No.
Because in current physics,
although that number
is used all the time
in quantum theory
to make our
equations work, it is
assumed that the
vacuum density does not
have any physical meaning.
We know for a fact
now, from experiments,
that actually the vacuum density
can be measured in laboratory
and has mechanical effects.
So if it has mechanical
effects, it obviously
has meaning in our
material world.
I wondered how
much a vacuum would
be present inside the
nuclei of an atom.
Would that energy
be enough to make
the nuclei of an
atom a black hole?
So I looked at the proton,
which is at the nuclei.
And I started to extrapolate
how much vacuum would the proton
volume still contain,
knowing that there's
10 to the 93 grams
per centimeter cubed
in a centimeter cube of space.
How much of that
vacuum would still
be present in the
volume of a proton?
I calculated the
volume of a proton
and found that there is still
10 to the 55th grams in a proton
volume.
10 to the 55th grams
of vacuum energy
is still present
in a proton volume.
Where did we see that number?
10 to the 55th gram is
the mass of the universe.
There is the mass of the
universe present in vacuum
fluctuation, in vacuum
density, in the volume
of a proton, which is a
very, very small entity.
This confirmed something
fundamental to me.
It confirmed that
the vacuum is truly
the thing that
connects all things.
It showed that
everything is entangled
and everything is one.
And it showed it mathematically.
It's one thing to say
everything's one, which
is some things you find people
saying in spiritual world.
However, this
actually proves it.
So is 10 to the 55th grams
enough to make the proton
a black hole?
Oh, absolutely.
Since 10 to the 55th
grams is enough to make
the whole universe a
black hole, when that's
present in a small volume of a
proton, it's more than enough.
I calculated how much
of that is actually
necessary to make the
proton a black hole.
And I found that it's
only necessary for 10
to the minus 39 percent, a
very small number, teeny,
teeny number, a
decimal with 39 zeroes,
right, to make the
proton a black hole.
A very small amount
of the vacuum
can become coherent and
be converted to mass
to make the proton a black hole.
It was very amazing.
Because when we did
this, at the same time,
we calculated many things
for such a black hole proton.
And it turns out that it gives
us all the correct answers
to describe the atomic level.
And from the experiments
that are done in laboratory
and the results we
get in the laboratory,
all the correct answers
were coming out.
But our proton was much heavier
than the standard proton.
So which one is right?
We were getting
the right answers
from a completely different
approach than quantum theory.
In fact, we solved all of
that using classical mechanics
or semi-classical.
So we wrote another scaling law
to see if our proton mass was
in the right ballpark
in our universe.
We plotted all the
data points again.
But in this case, we
used mass against radius.
We started with universe,
and we went all the way down
to the Planck's mass.
And we plotted many, many
different data points
in between.
We used galaxies,
quasars, even our sun.
We put even the Earth in there.
We used pulsars.
And then we plotted our
Schwarzschild proton,
our black hole proton, and
it fell almost perfectly
on the linear progression.
Amazing.
Remarkable.
However, the standard
proton with a mass
of 10 to the minus
24, didn't even
come close, completely
off in left field.
That confirmed to us that our
black hole proton was actually
much more aligned with
the fundamental principles
of our universe.
Our proton mass produced a
large gravitational field.
And when we looked at
the gravitational field,
we found that it was
actually exactly the amount
of attraction that we
needed between protons
to overcome the Coulomb force.
The Coulomb force is the force
that pushes protons apart.
It's an electrostatic
charge, just
like two magnets that
are approached together
tend to want to repel if
they're the same polarity.
Well, the protons are squished
with the same polarity
into a very small nuclei.
And the Coulomb force
would be very, very strong.
Well, when we calculated for
two little black hole proton,
we found that the
gravitational force
was exactly what it
needed to be to squish
those protons together
against the Coulomb repulsion.
And this way, we could eliminate
one of the fundamental force
of quantum theory
called the strong force.
And by doing so, we
united the quantum world
with relativistic equation,
with the equations
that describes black holes,
galaxies, planets, stars,
and now the atomic level.
What is dividing the vacuum?
How does it divide?
What is its structure?
How does it become coherent?
Is there are fundamental
geometry that defines it all?
>>While searching for
this fundamental structure
of the vacuum in physics
and mathematical equations,
Haramein discovered
geometrical knowledge
in other curious places,
ancient text and traditions.
Unknown to him at the time,
many famous physicists
found supporting data from
historical manuscripts,
including the founder of modern
physical science, Isaac Newton.
And German astronomer
Johannes Kepler
used geometrical concepts often
found in ancient knowledge
to elaborate the mechanics
of our solar system.
>>I looked at various traditions
around the world, the Mayan,
the Incas, the Egyptian.
And I found that many
of them, including
the Chinese, the
Japanese, and so on,
had made very geometric
structures all
around the world.
One of them is Teotihuacan,
amazing complex north
of Mexico City that included the
Sun Pyramid, the Moon Pyramid,
the Way of the Dead, and
many complex structures all
around it.
I found that a
survey had been done
by an American engineer called
Hugh Harleston Jr. He had spent
20 years mapping out
the relationship of all
these buildings to each other.
And as he did, he
found that there
was some fundamental
mathematical constant that
were involved.
I had already come
up with the concept
that a tetrahedron
would be involved
in the structure of the vacuum,
since it's the most stable
of the platonic solids.
But what Hugh
Harleston Jr. found
is that not only did this
ancient complex portray
the movement of the
planets in their orbits
relative to our
sun, but as well,
had a fundamental
mathematical constant
that related a
tetrahedron to a sphere.
Why would the ancient Mayans
represent this very specific
relationship between a
tetrahedron and a sphere?
I thought maybe,
just maybe, they
were trying to deliver a
message throughout the ages
about the importance
of that relationship,
the structure of the vacuum
as a tetrahedral structure
and the sphere as the
boundary condition
that divided the space.
I looked into it deeper.
And I found that not only these
mathematics were portrayed
in the relationship of the
buildings in that complex,
but that the complex
itself, position
on the surface of
the Earth, mapped
the relationship of a
tetrahedron in a sphere.
I thought it was
very significant.
And it wasn't a coincidence.
>>Energy events across
the solar system
frequently happen along or
near the 19.47 meridian,
which is the base of
the inverted tetrahedron
in the Earth's sphere.
The pyramid system at
Teotihuacan in Mexico
lies on this
meridian as does one
of the most active
volcanoes on Earth.
Kilauea in Hawaii has
been erupting continuously
for the last 19 years and
shows no sign of stopping.
The largest volcano in our
solar system is located on Mars.
And it, too, is located
in this vicinity.
The well-documented
red spot on Jupiter,
a large vortex-like storm
larger than the Earth,
is also stabilized near this
critical 19.47 latitude.
>>As I studied more geometry, I
came across Buckminster Fuller.
He had done much work in
describing complex geometry
relative to our reality.
And Buckminster Fuller
came to conclude
that the fundamental
blueprint of the universe
was what he called an isotropic
vector metric or a four
frequency isotropic
vector metric.
There is 20 tetrahedron
in the four frequencies
or tropic vector metric, 10 on
the bottom, 6 in the middle,
3 on the third
floor, and 1 on top.
And it makes a
larger tetrahedron
when it's put together.
What I was interested in
was the negative space.
I wanted to know what's in
between the tetrahedrons.
When you put tetrahedrons
edge to edge or edge-bounded,
you get octahedrons in between.
Octahedrons are
pyramids base to base,
emphasis on the word pyramid.
When I looked at
the negative space,
I found that there was
another set of tetrahedrons
that was like the
negative negative space.
And those tetrahedrons
in the middle
were reverse and
rotated 180 degrees.
I didn't know what
they were doing there.
It was like there was asymmetry
in the isotropic vector metric.
With the word isotropic, you
would expect no asymmetry.
I was looking for a
perfect equilibrium.
So this was not
satisfactory to me.
I had to figure out what
these other tetrahedrons were
doing there.
I realized that one isotropic
vector metric could not
be alone.
It had to be polarized.
And so I stacked two
on top of each other.
However, now I add
another problem.
The two on top of each
other didn't make a sphere.
It made an egg.
And the concept I had developed
was that the tetrahedrons
produced the sphere that divides
the boundary from infinitely
large to infinitely small.
So I didn't know what to do.
It was like an egg
and a chicken problem.
I thought about it for
weeks, eventually realizing
that I had to push
one into the other.
I didn't want to distort the
geometry of the tetrahedron.
But when I actually got the
two so that they would produce
a perfect sphere,
I realized what
these other negative
negative space were for.
In fact, the one metric was
awaiting its better half.
It was not actually complete
until the reverse metric
was inserted into it.
And when it was, all of a
sudden these other spaces
were there to accept
the reverse tetrahedron,
like one tetrahedron
male metric was
waiting for its counterpart.
It was remarkable.
It was the polarities
coming together
to produce the perfect sphere.
And I looked at what geometry
was produced in the middle.
No tetrahedrons were distorted.
And the resulting geometry in
the middle is a cuboctahedron.
Why is a cuboctahedron
important?
Because Buckminster
Fuller coined it
the vector equilibrium.
It's the only geometry
in perfect equilibrium
in all vectorial possibility.
And that was exactly
what I was looking for,
the polarities coming together
to produce singularity,
to produce perfect
equilibrium at its center.
I thought this must be the
geometry of the vacuum.
>>Buckminster Fuller reasoned
that if the force of a vector
is its length and two
vectors are driven
against each other in
opposite directions,
you will get equilibrium.
But it will be
unstable equilibrium
because any other force
in any other direction
can break the balance.
You could add two more
vectors at 90 degrees
from the initial point.
But in that case,
the edge vectors
that contain the geometry would
be longer than the vectors
to the center,
creating instability.
Fuller realized that the
edge vectors and the vectors
to the center have to
be the same distance.
This creates a hexagon
or, in three dimension,
a cuboctahedron.
or vector equilibrium.
From this, Haramein
concluded that this structure
must be the geometry
of the vacuum,
since in perfect equilibrium,
all the forces would
cancel out and appear
to us to be empty space.
>>However, I had found
yet another issue.
When I looked at the
geometry carefully,
the vector equilibrium
in the middle
was completely covered
with tetrahedrons.
But the edges of the metrics
still had open faces.
I was looking for
perfect symmetry.
So I had to continue
adding tetrahedrons
to cover those faces.
I had already two
isotropic vector metric
of 20 tetrahedron each.
That made it 40.
I had to add another 24
tetrahedrons to cover
all of the faces
that were open faces
on the edge of the metric.
20 plus 20 is 40, plus 24
brought me to 64 tetrahedron.
This turned out to be a very
significant number, not only
a number found in many
ancient traditions,
but a number that is found
in many natural processes.
The 64 tetrahedron
grid kind of bloomed
into a whole new understanding
of the structure of the vacuum.
It was exactly what I needed.
It had an equilibrium at
the center that was actually
surrounded by
another equilibrium.
And you could visualize
this structure growing
in perfect fractal octaves from
infinitely big to infinitely
small.
I had not only my polarities
producing the equilibrium
and singularity,
but as it did, it
produced fractal
structures that could
be scaled from infinitely
big to infinitely small.
I felt I had found
something very profound.
It was a true three
dimensional fractal structure.
And it grew in perfect octaves.
I could see that this
metric could actually
be built in a completely
different way as well.
It could be built out of
eight star tetrahedron,
each made out of eight
tetrahedron each.
The eight star tetrahedron
coming together
produce the 64 tetrahedron grid.
Each star tetrahedron are
built by eight tetrahedron,
have their tetrahedron
pointing out, radiating out.
And when they come
together, they
produce the vector
equilibrium in the middle,
which is eight
tetrahedron pointing in.
So I had now both of the
side of the event horizon
that produced the boundary
condition, the radiative side
and the contractive side
of the event horizon.
I thought this is it.
I've found it.
And I got very, very excited.
I thought this has all of the
elements necessary for me to be
able to map out and describe
the structure of the vacuum,
the key to the knowledge
necessary to understand
creation.
>>Now, with the structure
of the vacuum realized,
the next step was
resolving how it moves.
This required
updating the theories
that proceeded Haramein.
When Einstein wrote
general relativity,
he described the
structure of spacetime
as curving to produce
a gravitational field.
This was a change
from Newton, who
believed gravity was a force
generated by the object itself.
>>Imagine a trampoline with a
mass on it, like a big ball.
And the trampoline is
curve by that big ball.
That trampoline
surface has elasticity.
And then imagine that another
ball is put on the trampoline.
That other ball would appear to
be attracted to that first one
due to the curvature of the
surface of the trampoline.
When Einstein wrote
these equations,
he didn't solve them.
He just wrote the concept.
He wrote the equation necessary
to describe the concept.
But the complexity
of finding a solution
was beyond what he
wanted to do at the time.
So we published
general relativity.
And by an amazing
set of circumstances,
a gentleman called
Karl Schwarzschild,
a German physicist,
found Einstein's paper.
And he saw this equation.
And he thought, hey,
I can solve this.
And Karl Schwarzschild went
on to find the first solution
to Einstein's field equations.
And that solution remains to
this day as the Schwarzschild
solution.
>>Unfortunately, months
after Karl Schwarzschild
solved Einstein's
field equations,
he died of an
autoimmune disease,
leaving the solution
without any mention
about the spin of
the black hole.
Spin and charge were
introduced in the 1960s
in what is commonly known
as the Kerr-Newman solution.
However, this theory
did not account
for the gyroscopic
effect that Haramein
knew needed to be accounted for.
>>I had realized that
there's something
strange about the
way our physics has
been addressing spin.
We might have missed
something in the way
we were describing spin
in our current physics.
This led, again,
to another paper
written with Dr.
Elizabeth Rauscher.
This paper was entitled
"The Origin of Spin."
It described a new way to define
the structure of spacetime.
If the gyroscopic
effects are added,
that means that the trampoline
is not curving smoothly,
but it is spinning as it
curves, that spacetime
has a fundamental spin.
Just like water
going down the drain
doesn't go down
the drain straight;
it spins as it goes
down the drain.
And that produces a
fundamental torque.
So torque and
Coriolis effect had
to be put back in to
Einstein field equations.
Dr. Rauscher and I worked
diligently for over a year
and a half to make that happen.
It gave a different picture of
the structure of a black hole.
Instead of a spherical,
smooth surface,
Coriolis effect were
involved, and the surface
was not a perfect
sphere, but a torus.
A torus is like a doughnut.
It has a hole in the middle.
And the result, then, was
a dual torus structure.
Because of Coriolis
effect, one doughnut
would be going in one direction.
And another doughnut
would be going
in the opposite direction.
For every spin,
there's a counter-spin.
Just like the weather patterns
that we find on our planet,
where hurricanes spin in
one direction on the North
hemisphere and spin in the
other direction in the South
hemisphere.
And they meet at the equator
but go back to the poles
and meet at the equator again.
This animation
shows the movement
of a particle over the
metrical space of the structure
of spacetime imbued with
torque and Coriolis effect.
All of a sudden, you can
see that the information can
move to the poles in
towards the singularity
and back out at the equator
and back into the pole.
And thus, you get this
feedback structure
that could be found
at the atomic level.
For instance, this could be an
electron and a positron, or at
the stellar level,
where we see the plasma
dynamics around the sun that
produces the same dual torus
dynamic, or at the
galactic level.
>>What's in the
middle of a torus?
What's in the middle
of a doughnut?
The hole, right?
It's space, the vacuum.
And this is why the vacuum
connects all things.
Because the vacuum divides
not with the complete boundary
of a sphere, but with a
torus in which a vacuum is
at the center of every object
where you'd expect singularity,
infinite density
of a black hole.
But instead, it's the vacuum
which is infinitely dense
and that connects all things.
It explains many different
things, including the way
magnetic fields are produced and
where the origin of spin was.
Not only is spin inherent
to the structure of space
itself, but it is
prevalent at all level
if the structure
of the vacuum acts
like a fluid, acts like
water going down the drain.
We know that the
electron and the positron
exchange and
disappear and reappear
and disappear and reappear.
It seems to exchange
across the vacuum.
That is, the vacuum fluctuates,
produce an electron,
fluctuates, and then
the electron disappear.
The electron carries the
information from the material
world to the vacuum,
informs the vacuum.
And then the vacuum informs
back the material world
when the electron
comes back out.
And so, we actually
are constantly
appearing and disappearing
at a very rapid rate,
at the speed of light.
Did you know that half the
time you're the vacuum?
Who are you when
you're the vacuum?
And what are you saying to
the rest of the universe
when you're
informing the vacuum?
From this model of
the double torus,
we start to have
an understanding
of why consciousness emerges.
Consciousness demands feedback.
In order for you
to be self-aware,
you must know that you exist.
Thus, it demands feedback.
This structure of
the double torus
allows for the
feedback between what's
coming from the outside that's
going back to the inside,
informing the vacuum,
coming back out the outside.
And as it comes back
out the outside,
the vacuum informs
us of the result
of the information
present in the vacuum.
It is an exchange between
your internal understanding
and experience of the
universe and the relationship
of all the understandings
put together
in the vacuums affecting yours.
So you're not
creating your reality.
You are co-creating your
reality with everybody else.
>>But how does the
double torus geometry
relate to the tetrahedral
structure of the vacuum?
For Haramein, it
all came together
when he visualized two isotropic
vector metrics surrounded
by a toroidal field.
Each represents a polarity
of the Coriolis effect.
As the two come together to
form the vector equilibrium,
the double torus
structure is generated.
When all the components
are producing equilibrium
at the center, the
result is singularity.
And all of creation
emerges from it.
>>When we solved this new
solution to Einstein's field
equation with torque
and Coriolis effect,
we found that we
could mathematically
show a fundamental relationship
between the cuboctahedron
and the double torus as well.
And when we did that, it
produces all the information
we need to generate a
unified field theory.
So this relationship between
the structure of the vacuum
and the dynamical division
of the vacuum based
on spin, torque,
Coriolis effect,
produce a complete understanding
of the geometry of space
and the reality that
emerges from space.
Look at this galaxy,
for instance.
You can see that
stars are emerging
from the central bulge, in which
an enormous black hole lives.
We know now that
there's a black hole
at the center of
all the galaxies.
Not only that, this
theory, as well,
predicted that galaxies are
the result of black holes, not
the cause.
That is that the material
reality we see emerging
is actually being produced
by the central heart
of the galaxy, the black hole.
Particles are being created in
a continuous creation process.
Not just one big bang,
but continuous creation
at all levels of singularities
along the scaling
of our universe.
When we look at the
stars in a galaxy,
they emerge from the
central black hole
and move in spiral path away
from it towards the edge.
At the edge, they enter
into the galactic halo,
which is the edge
of the double torus.
And then they fall
back in at the top,
just like the water
going down the drain.
From recent data,
not only do we find
that black holes are at
the center of all galaxies,
but it seems that black holes
were there prior to galaxies.
This is exactly what this
theory would predict.
Black holes are actually
a fundamental pattern
of the vacuum itself that
produces matter, and then
eventually becomes visible to us
as a galaxy, a star, a planet,
an atom, a subatomic particle.
This view, then, changes
our concepts of black holes.
Black holes should no longer
be written black holes H-O-L-E,
but wholes, W-H-O-L-E.
They're no longer just
absorbing information,
but they radiate
information as well.
They're black, white holes.
If you're on the inside
of the black hole,
like when you're inside our
universe, it appears black.
And if you're on the outside
of the event horizon,
they appear white, very bright.
They radiate information, just
like stars in our universe.
All this relates
nicely to many concepts
that are found in ancient
civilizations, many concepts
that talk about the center of
all things having God in it.
The Buddha is at the
center of all things.
That the Kingdom of Heaven
is within our center.
Many tradition talks about
us turning our senses inwards
and going towards the
center of our existence
to link with the whole
universe from the center
of our experience.
We find this said in
many different ways
from many masters all around
the world in ancient traditions.
And in these same
ancient traditions,
we find very
interesting buildings.
For instance, take
the pyramid at Giza.
The Grand Pyramid at Giza
is a remarkable building.
It's made out of approximately
2,300,000 stones.
It stands at 481
feet of altitude.
After placing 2,300,000
stones, the apex
of the Grand Pyramid
at Giza is a quarter
of an inch off center off the
base of a 13 acre surface.
Is that possible with the
means that the Egyptians had
5,000 years ago?
Or is it even possible
with the means of
construction and
engineering we have today?
Absolutely not.
If you calculate how
precisely each block had
to be placed from the ground
up, front the base up,
to achieve this
level of accuracy
at the apex of the pyramid,
it exceeds our accuracy
with the best tools we have
in our modern society today.
So could that really
have been made
by a bunch of farmers and
slaves 5,000 years ago pulling
on vine ropes with
logs and so on?
When we study buildings
all around the world,
we find very interesting things.
Many pyramids sites
around the world
seem to represent a very
specific constellation
in our sky.
That constellation is
the Orion constellation.
>>This discovery was
made only recently
by Egyptian-born engineer
Robert Bauval and writer,
explorer Graham Hancock.
If you view the pyramid Giza
and her two companion pyramids
from the sky at
night, the three axes
line up very closely with the
belt in Orion's constellation.
Hancock and Bauval discovered
that the Orion map also
lines up in the same
fashion with the pyramids
at Teotihuacan Mexico.
The sun, the moon,
and a smaller pyramid
emulate this connection
between stars and structures.
This mystery continues
across the globe in China,
where three pyramids close
to the same size as Giza
and Teotihuacan are located.
It is unlikely that these
alignments are coincidental.
Many of these structures also
have another commonality.
The stones are enormous and
include unusual precision
carvings between the
blocks as well as on them.
>>In this case, we find
a very important symbol.
The symbol is known
as the flower of life.
What's intriguing
about this symbol
is that it's not etched
or carved into the rock.
But it seemed to be laser
burned into the atomic structure
of the stone with
an instrument that
is not easily reproducible,
even with our technology today.
When we look at this symbol
and we extrapolate it
to three dimensions,
it looks like bubbles
all agglomerated together.
And it defines the
position and the geometry
of a 64 tetrahedral grid.
Were they trying to tell
us something significant
about the structure
of space in such a way
that it could not be erased
throughout ages of erosion?
Were they trying to
tell us something
about the technology
that was used
to move these large rocks
along long distances?
Well, when we look
in ancient Egypt,
nowhere do we find
in hieroglyphs
or a series of
hieroglyphs or texts
that tells us how they built
the pyramid, how they moved
the stone, how they got the
accuracy necessary to do such
a job.
Everywhere in those texts
they tells us about sun gods,
about these beings that seemed
to have come from very far away
in our universe and that
brought information with them,
knowledge such as
engineering and writing
and so on that they educated
the people of the Earth
with, very advanced people.
Maybe advanced people
were interacting
with humans in
pre-history, in time
prior to our written history.
This type of knowledge is
found across many different
countries, across
different many cultures,
for instance, in China
where pyramids are found.
China has symbols associated
with their knowledge
base, famous symbols.
For instance, the yin and yang.
The yin yang symbol is very
similar to the double torus
structure viewed from above.
Associated with this symbol
is a set of mathematics,
a set of symbols
called the I Ching.
The I Ching is
made of 64 symbols.
And each symbol is made of
six sticks, six full sticks
or six broken sticks.
Six sticks put
together in three space
can only produce a tetrahedron.
And when a star
tetrahedron is generated,
you will be required
to break the sticks
of the reverse tetrahedron
to put it through the other.
So by following the I
Ching, we can actually
rebuild the whole
64 tetrahedron grid.
And that associated
with the yin and yang
produces the double
torus and the structure
of the vacuum, all
the information
necessary to describe this
profound understanding
of creation and the structure
of the vacuum producing it.
Now, when you look in
China, you find as well
the Forbidden City.
The Forbidden City is
guarded by the Foo Dogs.
The Foo Dogs are the analog
of the Sphinx in Egypt.
They are considered
the guardians,
the guardian of knowledge.
And they guard the knowledge
by keeping it under their paw.
When we look under the paw of
the Foo Dog, what do we find?
Again, the same fundamental
geometry of these intersecting
spheres, in this case,
in complete 3D structure
that embeds the tetrahedral
array of the vacuum.
It's found in the Hebrew
tradition, where the Hebrew
God is typically represented
as a tetrahedron sitting
on a throne.
And he is not typically
represented in ancient Hebrew
tradition as an old
man with a beard.
When we look deeper into
the Hebrew tradition
and the Old Testament,
it seems that it
refers to a very
specific object that
had all sorts of properties
as the power of God.
The Ark of the
Covenant of God, it
is described as a
very powerful object.
Maybe some of these
advanced technologies
that were given to us by the
Sun God remained in our culture.
The Ark of the
Covenant was described
as this very bright
object, this object that
had a lot of radiation
coming out of it.
And it's typically represented
as producing a large vortex
or cloud above it.
It's described in
Rabbinic tradition
as an object that
could lift itself
and that could lift
its carriers with it.
Those would be evidence
of gravitational effects.
When we look at the word
God in the Old Testament,
actually we find that
it's a translation
of a Greek word called
the tetragrammaton.
The tetragrammaton is
typically represented
as a triangle with
the letters of God
in it in the
Kabbalistic traditions.
Tetra can stand for tetrahedron.
It, as well, is the
Greek word for four.
Grammaton, however, has
always been interpreted
as grammar for the four
letters of God, Yahweh.
The root word of
the word grammaton
can be as well grams
or gravity and refers
to the weight of an object.
So now we have a
word for the word God
that includes the
tetra and gravity.
Maybe there's a double meaning
to the word God in the Bible.
Now, with this
Kabbalistic tradition
comes a very important geometry.
It is said that if this
geometry is decoded,
the understanding of
the fundamental nature
of the universe can be achieved.
It is the Kabbalistic tree.
It is akin to the
tree of knowledge.
It's thought to be the
fundamental principle
of creation.
I looked at it in
details and spent
many months trying to decode it.
At one time, I realized
that the bottom part
of the Kabbalistic
tree is a tetrahedron
and that the top part
is an octahedron.
However, I had this box
in between with an x in it
that I wasn't sure
where it fitted.
I eventually came
to understand that I
could slide the bottom
part into the top part.
And as soon as I do so, it
became a three dimensional
object, giving me
all the vertices
to produce the star tetrahedron.
Now, further, the
Kabbalistic tradition
says there's not just
one tree, but there
is four, and that there's
a principle of mirroring
of the trees.
If there is four,
and they're mirrored,
that means all
together there's eight.
And it says that they
all attach at the root.
If I attach eight Kabbalistic
tree together and decode them,
in each one into
star tetrahedrons,
then I have a 64
tetrahedron grid.
And the Kabbalistic
tree has been decoded.
How do I know that
it's been decoded?
Because I can actually
take the two dimensional
image of the Kabbalistic
tree and plaster
it back onto the 64
tetrahedron grid.
This kind of the
loop in the code
is actually described in the
Kabbalistic tradition, where
it says that the
root is attached,
and then the crown
is attached, and then
the root is attached again.
The really interesting thing
about these Kabbalistic trees
coming together is that
when you decode them,
it's like they're being
compressed into the center.
And they become the
star tetrahedron.
So you actually have the sense
of the compressive contractive
part of the vacuum structure.
They're collapsing together
producing the star tetrahedrons
and the 64 tetrahedron
grid of the vacuum when
they are put together.
The root of the Kabbalistic
tree becomes the singularity.
>>The Mayans, the
Egyptians, Chinese, Hebrew,
and many others.
Were these ancient civilizations
from all different points
across the globe leaving
us detailed information
about the structure
of the vacuum
and even the fundamental
physics of creation?
According to Haramein,
the structure
of the vacuum and the
fluctuations of energy in it
are at the foundation
of all our reality
and even the consciousness
that animates it.
We are in a relationship with
the universe at all times,
exchanging information
on all scales.
Has the time come when we can
finally wake and acknowledge
this powerful connection
and even harmonize with it?
>>I think we are standing at the
brinks of this transition, one
of the biggest transition a
society can ever go through.
A transition from a
society that believes
that there is limited
amount of goods,
that there is limited amount
of space and that wars
for it to a society
that realizes
that they are bathing in an
infinite amount of energy
available to them
anywhere in the universe,
and that that energy is
the source of all creation.
A society that understands
how this fluctuation of energy
functions, how it structures,
how it produces our material
world and hooks into
it, taps into it,
and aligns its technology
to it in an harmonious way
to transform the way they think
of energy and transportation
and actually ascend from
the surface of their planet.
A society that has
the capacity to move
through their solar
system in an easy way,
and to move through
even the galaxy,
or even from galactic structures
to other galactic structures,
or even from universes
to other universes.
As such, a society
does not think
of the universe as limited.
A society such as
this one, I believe,
is the opportunity that is being
offered to us at this time.
This is the ride we're on.
And I invite you to
be a full participant.